# KataKita: Our Words Told By Us

Our problem lies on the lack of knowledge and the knowledge gap between indigenous elders (who bear cultural and linguistic knowledge) and diaspora/urban members of said indigenous community. Many indigenous languages lack of resource to document or even create pedagogical tools for intergenerational transmission. This problem is also exacerbated by closed-doors knowledge withholding; resources of Indigenous languages are often kept in closed-doors within academia, compiled only by academics, and used exclusively within this circle. And entrepreneurs and developers often fail to address this open knowledge sharing by building apps that are custom made and too specific, not a one size fits all. 

To solve this problem, we propose KataKita, an online community dictionary application that is versatile to different languages and uses. We develop a core web service with a database that is easily built and truncated to be compatible with various languages, and an open source API that could be implemented in different kinds of UIs that the indigenous community see fit. In our proposed initial language for deployment, we fit the needs of the Batak community by creating a WhatsApp chatbot and a sleek stylish website. Our WhatsApp chatbot is geared towards community elders (who uses WhatsApp as a form of communication in their day-to-day) where users could simply type and send options to add words, view words, upvote/downvote words, view & contribute to discussions under a word, view word trends with Google Trends API, forward conversations from other chats to extract a particular word's definition and context, and view their search history. Our website is geared towards diaspora members of the indigenous community, who are more often learners of the language. The website has the same features to the chatbot with a stylish UI and more details such as a word's part of speech and phonetic spelling to aid learners of an indigenous language. 

Our objective in building this application is to democratize knowledge to its beholders, and the generations that come after them. KataKita moves with the upward stream of rapid digitization and make sure that no word is left behind. KataKita's decentralization and adaptability to different community needs empower global south language speakers, no matter how tech savvy they are. It takes a community to preserve and sustain indigenous languages as it is within the community that the language breathes. Hence our solution involves incorporating every part of that community.

## Instructions

database.sql contains sql code to run and create the database schema.
